the United Nations top court has just
ruled against ordering Germany to Hal
armed sales to Israel the case was filed
by Nicaragua and accused Germany of
failing to prevent genocide in Gaza by
continuing to sell arms to Israel it's
the latest case involving Israel before
the international court of justice South
Africa approached the court in December
accusing Israel of committing genocide
viations convention by 15 votes to one
find that this circumstances as they now
present themselves to the court are not
such as to requir exercise of its power
under article 41 of the statute to
indicate provisional
measures let's go live to Al jazer it's
villm Marx who's at the H Forest so
villm tell us more about what the court
said today to explain their decision not
to issue provisional
measures well Folly there were two
specific spe ific issues one was very
much factual let's start with that they
accepted the statements made by the
German legal team that since October the
7th not only has there been a massive
reduction in the value of their military
related transfers to Israel but the vast
vast majority around 98% of the value of
all those transfers was for non-lethal
material they acknowledged there had
been 300 anti-tank missiles sold from
Germany into Israel they said that
therefore there was not a huge amount of
indication that German support for the
Israeli military was helping that
Israeli military operate inside Gaza
secondarily they pointed out that given
the claim from Nicaragua was that
Germany was in violation of the genocide
convention the court has previously
itself not yet ruled that Israel is
violating that convention and therefore
there was no legal standing right now
for them to issue these so-called
provisional measures against Germany
because Germany itself is not seen to be
supporting a state that is itself in
violation of the convention that was
essentially the two key acceptances and
part of that ruling from the court today
and what has Nicaragua said uh following
this ruling what is going to be their
next step
now so their agent Ambassador has come
out here to speak just a few minutes ago
in front of the court it's important to
note that Germany had sought for this
case to essentially be dismissed at this
point that would normally only happen
the court said were there questions
around jurisdiction there are no such
questions around jurisdiction so they
said that the case would continue and
Carlos Jose aguelo Gomez the agent
Ambassador for Nicaragua spoke to us
just a few moments ago to the pre press
pack gathered out here saying the case
will continue despite the icj ruling
against the emergency request the ruling
doesn't mean he said that Germany did
not violate International rules and of
course this could go on Folly for many
many years hence forth vill thank you
very much vill marks live there at the
ha let's get reaction now from Berlin
and speak to aleser Dominic kanaine
what's the reaction of the German
government uh following this ruling
Dominic well fully
theam the foreign office has rather
quickly reacted putting out a statement
on social media it's in German but I'll
paraphrase it's saying nobody is above
the law that informs the way we carry
out our policies we welcome today's
judgment by the international Court
Germany is not party to the conflict in
the Middle East on the contrary we are
working day and night for a two State
solution we are a provider a provider of
large amounts of humanitary humanitarian
help to the Palestinians we are working
as far as possible to make sure that
help gets to people in Gaza and the
final part of it they say this is the
foreign Ministry German foreign Ministry
says we also see however in their words
the terror of the 7th of October is what
calls the spiral of suffering that has
been triggered against which Israel must
defend itself and we note that there are
still more than 100 hostages in the
hands of Hamas who in their words they
say are being used as or misused as
human Shields that reaction from the
German foreign Ministry in the course of
the last 20 minutes or so and it shows
that the government here is happy that
part of the case has gone in their favor
but clearly they wanted as Willam was
saying the case to be thrown out and
that has not happened so as it were two
cheers metaphorically from the German
government in so far as this judgment is
concerned thank you Dominic for that
Dominic Kane with the reaction there
from from Berlin let's explore all this
further now with motaz alferi who heads
the human rights program at the Doha
Institute for graduate studies thank you
once again for being with us so as we
heard there yes uh the court said no
legal standing to issue provisional
measures against Germany but it is not
the end of the case as we've heard what
happens next yes this is not the end of
the case this is just a decision
regarding the provisional measures
requested by Nicaragua as they stand
right now MH but it send a message also
to Germany that in the future because
after reading the the text in the future
if Germany decide to provide weapons
that are directly used in the violation
Nicaragua can Again by the way request a
new me yes it happened in South Africa
versus Israel you remember in the case
there was provisional measures in
January then another provisional
measures in uh in in in Marsh so the
point here the in the conclusion of the
the decision of today the court said
directly the court consider it
particularly important to remind all
state of their International obligation
relating to the transfer of arms to
parties of an armed conflict so it
reminds that Germany is under obligation
not to provide arms that could be used
in violation okay now what about the
implications then for other countries
that provide support Military Support to
Israel but also the what means for
countries who might not just Nicaragua
but as we saw South Africa or others who
might want to bring a case against
Israel's supporters to uh uh the
international court of justice because
the issue here was that there wasn't
sufficient evidence to UE these
provisional measures
right in the future should provide
sufficient and substantial evidence that
there is ongoing cooperation and
Military export that is used in
violation of international humanitarian
law and international human rights law
in provisional measure you don't talk
about the past you are talking about
something ongoing and there is emminent
risk that the threat will continue today
the court did not find that and it was
convinced of what Germany uh presented
because Germany also argued that it has
system to Monitor and it is that Germany
is ComEd also or Bound by EU law and in
arm export so any case should provide
evidence that there are ongoing uh uh
export and these export are used
directly in the violation of Geneva
Convention or the convention on genocide
okay so it's a lesson for other
countries that might want to bring a
case yeah but also just to conclude I
think what's happening now is that Gaza
launched a long term legal mobilization
it is not the end of the story we can
also witness domestic litigation in
Germany in Canada inside countries that
provide because people can also file
cases in domestic court okay very
interesting this was a legal Victory
perhaps for Germany but not not a
political one I don't to consider it
yeah political legal Victory because
there are no provisional measures yeah
but I don't consider it that Victory
because also in the conclusion of the
Tex of the decision today the court
remind Germany of its obligation and
remind International Community and state
parties of the Geneva Convention on
International material law of their
obligation not to provide weapons that
are used in violation of the Geneva
Convention so this lay the ground for
future litigation it it is possible of
course do you expect that there could be
other cases you mentioned the local
cases that's a possibility but at the
international court of justice do you
expect that other countries could yes
other countries of course can take the
step we need to remember that Nicaragua
and Colombia intervened in support of
South Africa and it's a case against
Israel so right now the icg already
handled three cases related to
Palestinian related to palestin in
general one The Advisory opinion that it
provide open the request of the general
assembly to discuss the legal
consequences of the incubation the
second one uh South Africa versus Israel
and the third one Nicaragua and Germany
because the court will decide on the
merits so there still other uh uh phases
for this case it has not ended it will
take some time thank you very much maras
for your Insight as always very good to
get your expertise maras alagi from the
Institute of Graduate Studies thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get latest news from aler